# Magic
#magic #concept #metaphysics #wip #otc

- [Magic](#magic)
  - [Sorcery](#sorcery)
  - [Thaumaturgy](#thaumaturgy)
  - [Unified Magic](#unified-magic)

Magic is the mortal art of utilizing [[Divine Light]] to change the material world. It is grouped into two broad categories depending on the source Light, [[Sorcery]] and [[Thaumaturgy]]. An origin for Magic exists in every myth, and it is reasonable to assume any long-lasting group has discovered a form of one or the other in their history.

## Sorcery
Knowledge, Memory, Mastery, Detachment

Certain concepts are 'shot through' with Light on their journey to the lower plane. Gods can do this intentionally, but it is not unheard of for this to happen incidentally during their twisting travel through the [[Supernal Realm]]. With proper knowledge, a mortal can tap into this power to create magic. Magic created in this fashion is called Sorcery.

The most widespread form of sorcery is worked through [[Blacktongue]]. With Blacktongue, sorcery is worked through merely speaking the words, fiendishly difficult though the language may be. Certain languages and actions are obvious candidates for Sorcery. Gods are known to suffuse their favored types of materials, flora, fauna, and shapes as well. Working with these could require any number of esoteric proccesses, but most often involves the formation of [[Arrays]].

In truth, all concepts are infused with at least a tiny amount of Divine Light. Any action or substance can be made to perform beyond what its physical conditions would bely, with proper knowledge. [[Ensorcelling]] is perhaps the most sophisticated sorcery to utilize this principle - the craftsmen of the Sindhe can tap into the Light of any object, given time.

Black Sorcery
???
White Sorcery
???

## Thaumaturgy
Emotion, Desire, Empathy, Sensitivity

All mortals are inheritors of Divine Light by way of their [[Ess]]. Most will never conciously utilize it - the few that do practice thaumaturgy.

Low Thaumaturgy is when a mortal passes the light of their Ess over something in a process commonly reffered to as 'shining'. It does not modify Ess in any fashion. The capacity to do so is inherent in all mortals; learning how to do so, and how such power will manifest, is highly personal, however. Thaumaturgic education is more about learning to teach oneself, in contrast to the rote exercises and staid academia of Sorcery.

Low Thaumaturgy is useful and known for crude but powerful effects, such as:
 - Elemental conjuration and control (Fireball, wall of ice)
 - Superhuman feats (Leap, glide)
 - Physical reconstitution (Heal wounds, cure poison)
 - Emotional manipulation (Persuasion, fear)

High Thaumaturgy involves the relocation of Ess. The substance of Ess cannot be altered, but it can be moved about within or between vessels. High Thaumaturgy has been responsible for some of the most selfless, and most depraved, acts commited with magic. Some loot Ess mercilessly from without, grafting it to themselves. Others give pieces of themself to mend what has been broken. Others still merely move Ess into new formations, provoking foundational changes in a things' qualities.

High Thaumaturgy is capable of inimitable spirit manipulation.
 - Without to Within (Vampirism, communion)
 - Within to Without (Self-Sacrifice, miracles)
 - Formation (Self-Improvement, enlightenment)
 - Reconfiguration (Polymorphy, karmic healing)

Because all things contain Ess, Thaumaturgy is technically capable of affecting all concepts. In practice, this is far easier to achieve with a relevant Sorcery, and as such largely unexplored.

## Unified Magic

A perceptive student might notice that the nature of Divine Light means that it is hard to draw lines between where the categories of Magic begin and end. While helpful, most Magic is at least some mix of Sorcery, Thaumaturgy, High and Low. What a category Magic is capable of and how it is practiced is merely a suggestion.

Spells are considered black, white, low, or high for purposes of classification. None of these are mutually exclusive but a greater number of classes often means more complex, and tricky to complete.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Blacktongue]: Blacktongue "Blacktongue"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"